# ECE444-F2021-Lab6

## Pros and Cons of TDD

In test driven development, tests are written first and production code is added based on passing tests and necessary test cases.

Some of the pros of test driven development are the fact that the team is designing the software with an approach that is testable. This is good since testable software is easier to write tests for and maintain. This approach also helps the team from writing any unecessary code since every line has a purpose and a test that it is tied to, reducing the amount of clutter that could bloat up the software. Test driven development also gives the team a clear approach forward on what to write and how to tackle the development of the application, which brings greater overall productivity. Writing tests that are automated can also save the team a lot of time since manual testing can be reduced. Test Driven Development also helps with reducing tech debt in the future as it reduces the need for teams to spend time to go back to older code and write missing tests.

Some of the cons of test driven development is the reliance on writing actually good tests. Trusting that a passing test equates to good software can be dangerous as it is possible to write bad tests which dont really test anything, or write tests that test incorrect things. Test driven development also means the number of tests are always increasing in the codebase, which means existing tests will require a lot of maintaining to ensure they continue to pass. Depending on the team, some deployments may be blocked if a faulty test is failing due to a bug in the test and not in the code itself. In addition to requiring maintenance, inconsistent maintenance can lead to tech debt in the testing space which could really break a teams workflow due to having asuite of broken tests that need fixing. Tests are also sensitive to any large code changes as changing a framework or dependency will require updating the test suite and even potentially completely overwriting existing tests to match the new changes. This can discourage teams from making the changes at all which brings the quality of the application down.
